What is a label in prometheus? a way to group targets together
How do I add a label to prometheus? writing group="label_name" to scrape_configs section of my prometheus.yml file, and then restarting the prometheus instance by running the binary again with ./prometheus
How do I reload a prometheus instance's configuration without restarting the process? using kill -s SIGHUP <PID>, replacing <PID> with your Prometheus process ID
What is systems monitoring? essentially the monitoring of the system--it literally tracks a device's system to make sure it doesn't have any issues with performance, availability, or security
What is a multi-dimensional data model? working with data that has multiple categories or aspects to it, like a map which has a key and value for each entry--that would be an example of 2-dimensional data model, but some can have many more than that
What is distributed storage? storage that is not stored and processed on a single server/node, but rather, distributed across multiple servers or nodes to be stored and processed
What is prometheus? an open-source tool that monitors and alerts systems by collecting and storing metrics in a time-series database
What is an endpoint? a device that connects to a network or a point in an API where a request is made
What is a prometheus target? an endpoint that supplies metrics for Prometheus to store
What is instrumentation? the process of amodifying software so that analysis can be performed on it
When should you use prometheus? recording any purely numeric time series
When should You should not use prometheus? you need 100% accuracy, because data collected with prometheus may not be detailed or complete enough
What does a prometheuss target do? expose metrics for collection by by providing a dedicated http endpoint, usually located at the path /metrics, where prometheus can periodically scrape the latest metric data in a plain text format that prometheus understands
What does it mean to scrape data? get structured data from some publicly available places
How do I download and run Prometheus locally? downloading the zip file on prometheus' website and following the instructions to unzip it then run the prometheus binary file that comes out of it
How do I configure prometheus to scrape itself? adding a job to my prometheus.yml configuration file with a static_configs section that points to the local host and port where prometheus is running (usually localhost:9090), which tells it to scrape metrics from its own endpoint
How do I configure prometheus to scrape itself? simply going to port 9090 of localhost after running prometheus, since prometheus usually does this by default
What is a query? a request for information or data from a database that is written in a specific format
What is a rule (in prometheus)? a configuration element that allows you to define specific conditions based on monitored metrics (kind of like a complex macro, triggered by particular conditions)
What is the node exporter in prometheus? a dedicated tool that collects and exposes various system-level metrics from a server (such as cpu usage, memory, disk space, network statistics, etc) in a format that prometheus can easily scrape and monitor
What is a target? a device or service (endpoint) that connects to data to provide data that prometheus scrapes at regular intervals
How do I configure Prometheus to monitor a target? going to scrape_configs in prometheus.yml configuration file, and adding job name(s), static config(s), and target(s)
What is a canary instance? like a beta version--it's a new version of software released to a limited number of users for testing
What is Grafana? open source software that allows the user to query, visualize, alert on, and explore your metrics, logs, and traces wherever they are stored
Does Grafana have to be used with prometheus? no, because grafana and prometheus are both flexible as to the tools they use to both gather and display data respectively--although they are often used together
What is stored in metrics by prometheus? any measurable points of time series dat
What are metrics? quantifiable measures of software characteristics, such as % cpu usage, gigabytes of memory, or program execution time, to name a few
What are traces? a software process that captures and records information about the execution of a program
What does a push gateway do? allows components that are unscrapeable, whether due to short-lived jobs, no exposed metrics endpoint, or restricted access, to push their metrics to another component that CAN be scraped
When should I use the pushgateway? I am working with data that cannot be scraped, such as a short-lived job, a component with restricted access, or a component with no exposed metrics endpoint
What does it mean to store metrics as time series data? include not just the data but the time points at which each piece of data was collected, and to collect data points over time
What is a pull model for time series collection? a system where data is requested by various sources (servers or sensors) at regular intervals, instead of those sources pushing data to the collector automatically
What is an intermediary gateway? synonymous in prometheus with a pushgateway, and acts as a middle ground to collect metrics from jobs or applications that cannot be directly scraped by the prometheus server
What is a push gateway? also known as an intermediary gateway because of its middle-man role in scraping metrics from prometheus jobs or applciations
What is a time-series? is a type of data that is collected over time for observation
What does it mean to scrape time series data? collect data over time, and come up with some way to store said data along with the time in which it was collected
What is an instance in prometheus? the host:port part of the target's url that was scraped
What is an instance in prometheus? a label that uniquely identifies a target in a job
What is a job in prometheus? a logical grouping of one or more targets that you want to monitor
What does it mean to add scraped data to a new time series? take data extracted from a website or other source using a web scraping technique and incoporating it into a new data set that is organized chronologically, creating a new time series where each data point is associated with a specific time stamp
What does it mean to compute something ad-hoc? compute something for a specific situation, since ad hoc means "for this" or "for this situation"
What is a query in prometheus? a request for data from a data base that prometheus is scraping from at a given point
How does prometheus make queries that aggregate thousands of time series more efficient? prerecording expressions into new persisted time series via configured recording rules
What is a rule in prometheus? a powerful configuration element that allows you to define specific conditions based on the promql input
What does SIGHUP stand for? Signal Hangup
Why does SIGTERM shut down a prometheus instance more cleanly than SIGHUP? when prometheus receives SIGTERM, it stops scraping targets and writing data to disk, whereas when prometheus receives SIGHUP it does NOT shut down, but instead just reloads its configuration program, so there is a chance that a new configuration state might mess with the current one when configured while the application is still running, although this is convenient
What are some useful things I can do in prometheus? to be notified via email when memory usage gets to 80% to take proactive measures
What does it mean for a time series to be marked as stale? no value will be returned for said time series
What is an offset modifier in prometheus? a way to change the time offset for individual instant and range vectors in a query
What is a selector? a feature in promql that specifies which time series points to retrieve from a metric
What are vectors in promql? a set of time series where every timestamp maps to a range of data points over a certain amount of time
What is an aggregation operator? used to aggregate the elements of a single instant vector, resulting in a new vector of fewer elements with aggregated values
What are the most notable features of PromQL? to display the return value either as a graph or plain text, or exported to some other application or website
What are the most notable features of PromQL? that it is a nested functional langauge, and the outermost expression defines the final value, and nested functions represent values for arguments and operands
What is the difference between an instant query and a range query in prometheus? that an instant query is evaluated at a specific moment, whereas a range query gets executed over a time rane
What types of queries are stored in the Table and Graph tabs in the prometheus ui? instance and range
What role does the HTTP API play in other programs fetching the result of a PromQL expression? allowing you to fetch raw metrics directly
Which of the four expression evaluation types is currently unused in prometheus? string
What are the four types that an expression or sub-expression can evaluate to? an instant vector, a range vector, a scalar, or a string
Which data types are supported by range queries? numeric data types like integers and floats, as well as date and time data types
Which data type represents a set of time series containing a single sample for each time series, all sharing the same timestamp? an instant vector
What is a feature flag in prometheus? a configuration setting that allows users to enable or disable experimental, less stable features within prometheus
What is a bucket in prometheus? a predefined range of values used to categorize and count observations in histogram metrics
What are the four metric types in prometheus? counter, gauge, histogram, and summary
What is a counter metric in prometheus? a value that can only increase or reset--it cannot be explicitly decremented (like my current qfi line-reading interface)
What is a gauge metric in prometheus? a single numerical value that can arbitrarily go up and down (like a basic, simple integer)
What is latency? the amount of time it takes for a system to respond to a request
What does le mean in prometheus? less than or equal to
What is a summary metric in prometheus? calculated at metric generation time and is fixed in its parameters
What is a histogram metric in prometheus? calculated after metrics are collected at query time, and is more flexible than a summary
What is the TSDB in prometheus? an abbreviation for "Time Series Database"
What is the name of the function that returns an empty vector if the vector passed into it has any elements, and a 1-element vector with the value of 1 if the vector passed to it has no elements? absent()
In what circumstance would you use +Inf (infinity) in prometheus? you want to know when an upper bound has been exceeded
What does the changes function do? returns the number of times the inputted value has changed within the provided time range (as an instant vector)
What does the clamp function do? forces the values of all sample values in vector input to have a lower limit of min and upper limit of max (all 3 are inputs that get passed into clamp())
What does the rate function do in promql? calculates the per-second average rate of increase of the time series in the range vector
What are three examples of time calculation functions in prometheus? day_of_month(), day_of_week(), and days_in_month(), for example
What does the delta function do in prometheus? calculates the difference between the first and last value of a time series within a specified range vector
What is the only metric type that the deriv function should be used on? a gauge
Which specific metric type in prometheus is experimental and may therefore be removed in future versions of prometheus? a native histogram
What is a float sample in prometheus? a single data point within a time series that consists of a floating point number and a timestamp, representing a measurement taken at a specific time
What would cause a naming collision in prometheus? exporting or otherwise using the same names for certain metrics
What is a join query in prometheus? a way to combine or match time series from different metrics based on their labels
What does monotonic mean in the context of prometheus buckets? the count in the buckets never decreases (in other words, the main characteristic of prometheus counters)
What is the role of a smoothing factor in prometheus? to control how much emphasis is given to recent data points as opposed to older historic data when it comes to calculated a smoothed trend line
What is the syntax for inputting label matchers in promql? metric_name{label_matcher1, label_matcher2, etc...}
What is the role of the __name__ label matcher in prometheus? to act as a way to specifically target a metric by its actual name instead of a label
What does the i in irate stand for? increase
What function would you use to sort results in descending order? sort_desc()
What does the time function do? returns the time at which the function is to be evaluated (in seconds since January 1, 1970, UTC)
How would I select all HTTP status codes except for ones that include 5xx? typing http_requests_total{status!~"5.."}
What does it mean if an http request metric has a resolution of 1 minute? metric data points are gathered and recorded at 1-minute intervals
