What are balloon (PTA) catheters used for? Minimally-invasive surgical operations involving de-clogging cardiovascular blood vessels. Opening blood vessels by compressing plaque against walls. Temporarily blocking blood flow to directly administer drugs. Scaffolding vessels by facilitating stent placement inside them. Gently forced labor-induction via cervix (Foley balloon catheter). Stopping internal bleeding using REBOA. Draining urine from bladder, especially post-surgery. Anything requiring the dissolution of blood clots.
What other names/types of balloon catheters exist? Angioplasty catheter. Drug-coated balloon (DCB). Over the wire (OTW) balloon catheters. Rapid Exchange (RX) balloon catheters. Balloon occlusion catheter (temporary blood flow blocker). Foley catheter (anchors into bladder for urinary procedures). Balloon dilation catheter (widens narrow anatomic passages). PTA (Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasy) catheter.
What risks can come with angioplasty operations? Restenosis, aka, re-narrowing of artery over time. Blood clots can form due to stent placement. Blood-thinning medication reduces risk of blood clots. Plaque or clot complications may cause heart attacks. Tearing artery wall, which would require emergency surgery. May cause stroke if blood clot reaches brain. Occassional allergic reaction to contrast dye used. Contrast dye may affect kidney function.
What do the individual elements of PTA mean? Per = through; cutis = skin. Percutaneous = through skin. Percutaneous refers to procedures done by puncturing skin. Trans = across|through; lumen = light|opening|passageway. Transluminal = through or across lumen. Angio = vessel; plasty = molding|reshaping. Angioplasty = vessel remolding|reshaping. Percutaneous-transluminal-angioplasty = vessel remolding across lumen through skin.
What role does a guidewire play in angioplasty? Provides structural support for catheters and stents. Facilitates flexible, precise navigation within catheter. Guidewire is AKA wire introducer or access wire. Minimizes trauma and therefore increases safety. Some procedures are too complex without one (CTO's). Without guidewires, catheter navigation is virtually impossible. Facilitates lubrification in angioplasty operation via administered coatings. In summary, guidewires maximize precision, safety, and control.
What role does contrast dye play in angioplasty? Applies x-ray imaging (fluoroscopy) to view outside arteries. Confirms exact location of the narrowed artery. Directs guidewire and balloon catheter to target site. Monitors stent and balloon placement visually (in real-time). Checks the success of blood flow restoration post-inflation. Measures the size of arterial lesion(s). Confirms success after angioplasty (post-dilation). Reveals any vessel rupture or other disruptions.
What role do stents play in angioplasty? Prevents arteries from collapsing, a common occurance post-dilation. Can be drug-eluted, which prevents tissue regrowth. Provides stabilizing control in challenging anatomy. Minimize dilation count which reduces procedure time. Minimize surgical risks by stopping arterial ruptures. Facilitate future operations by making location more clear. Promotes natural vessel healing and limits inflammation. Customizable diameter can be fine-tuned, unlike balloons.
What role does radiopacity play in angioplasty? Helps detect balloon deflation via imaging scans. Ensures catheter components are visible under x-ray imaging. Facilitates precise placement of catheter through x-ray visualization. Devices appear white on x-rays, contrasting the black. Reduces procedure time by improving device visibility. Ensures post-procedure device monitoring. Radiopaque markers aid facilitate high-control visibility under x-rays. Displays vessel rupture by visualizing leaking contrast fluid.
