What are pods in kubernetes? a group of one or more containers that work together as a single logical host
How is a service defined in kubernetes? as an abstraction that represents a logical set of pods, providing a stable network endpoint to access a group of pods even if the individual pods themselves are ephemeral and changing
What is a deployment in kubernetes? a resource object that defines the desired state of an application, allowing you to specify how many replicas of a pod should be running and enabling controlled updates to your application by managing the lifecycle of pods, such as by rolling updates and rollbacks without manual interventions; in other words, it's a way to declare how your application should be deployed and to automatically maintain that state within the kubernetes cluster
What is a namespace in kubernetes? a logical division within a cluster that allows you to group and isolate sets of resources, effectively creating virtual sub-clusters where different applications or teams can manage their resources separately within a single kubernetes cluster, preventing conflicts and simplifying access control; in other words, a namespace acts as a way to organize and partition resources within a cluster by creating unique scopes for resource names across different namespaces
What are configMaps and secrets in kubernetes? a way to store configuration data and sensitive information respectively; configMaps share non-sensitive data as key-value pairs, and supply configuration values that an app needs at runtime, and can be altered without re-deploying an app's pods, and are also intended to store relatively small amounts of simple data; secrets store sensitive information, such as passwords, and of course encrypt this data; secrets can be created by the system during an app's installation or by users at build time or run time
What is a volume in kubernetes? a directory that stores data that can be accessed by containers in a pod
What is a volume in kubernetes? like the following: k8s volume : docker containers in pod ~= docker volume : host filesystem
What is a microservice? an abstraction within an application to perform some specific business function and can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently of other services
What is service discovery? the process of automatically detecting and identifying available services and devices on a network, allowing applications to locate and connect to said services dynamically and automatically; these are particularly important in a microservices architecture
What is kubernetes? an open-source system that automates container deployment tasks
What is kubernetes? a way to automate things like starting new apps when needed, restarting apps if they crash, spreading out work so that no one part of the system is overloaded (load balancing), and scaling up or down based on demand
What is kubernetes? a higher-level abstraction built on top of docker
What is a replica set in kubernetes? basically like an image, because a k8s pod is like a docker container as far as k8s is concerned (although it can contain multiple containers technically), and a k8s replica set is a way to generate a pod, just like a docker image replicates a docker container
What is a kubernetes job? an object that creates a set of pods and waits for them to terminate, and once a specified number of pods have exited successfully, the job gets marked as completed
