An iso image is a digital copy of an optical disc, like a cd or dvd, that's saved as a single file, which can essentially be used to archive, share, or replicate data without needing a physical disc.
Dhcp automatically assigns ip addresses and other network configuration details like subnet masks and default gateways (lan stuff) to devices on a network, eliminating the need to configure each device individually and manually--in other words, it manages the distribution of ip addresses within a network.
Dhcpcd is a dhcp client that sets up ip addresses and other network configuration options--it's a dhcp client that gets the host information (address, route, etc) from a dhcp server, and configures the network interface of the machine on which it's running.
Ping tests the reachability of a host on an ip network by measuring the round-trip time for messages sent from the originating host to a destination computer.
To partition a disk means to divide a hard drive into multiple, separate sections, essential creating virtual "drives" within a single physical drive, allowing you to manage different pieces of a drive as though they were each individual drives.
To make a filesystem on a device means to set up a system on a storage device that organizes and manages data by creating a structure for storing files and directories, allowing the operating syystem to easily access and identify individual pieces of data on the device.
To mount a filesystem means to make a file system from a storage device accessible to the operating system by attaching it to a specific directory on the current file system heirarchy.
Swap storage on a computer is used for temporary storage when the system runs out of physical ram, allowing the operating system to move less actively used data from ram to the hard disk to free up space for currently needed programs and processes, effectively extending the computer's memory capacity.
A disklabel is a specific area on a hard disk that stores information about the disk's physical and virtual components (including its geometry and partitions), making it basically a map to tell the operating system where to locate data on the disk.
A stage file is used for a starting point for gentoo on a system in the installment process--providing the necessary tools for installment and to download and compile further packages in gentoo.
An init system in gentoo is the first program launched after the kernel boots up, essentially acting as the manager for starting and controlling all other system services during the boot process.
To archive a file in bash means to combine one or more files/directories into a single file, often for the purpose of easier storage, transfer, and/or backup.
The configurations in the /mnt/gentoo/etc/portage/make.conf file are used for customizing the portage package manager environment, including flags that apply to all packages (use flags), the user's speaking langauge, portage mirrors, binary package compression, and software licenses in gentoo.
The mount flags types, bind, rbind, make-slave, and make-rslave mean type - indicates filesystem type; bind - attach only part of a filesystem, not possible submounts; rbind - attach a filesystem and all its submounts; make-slave - makes a mount (but not its submounts) a slave mount, meaining changes made in namespaces besides the slave mount can propogate to the slave mount, but changes made on the slave mount do NOT propogate to other namespaces; make-rslave - same as make-slave, but follows submounts recursively as well.
What does chroot do? changes the root directory to the supplied directory and executees command, if supplied, or an interactive copy of the user's shell, and is often used for testing systems operations that are risky in the main system.
.
Swap storage on a computer is used for addition ram, basically; in other words, when ram is running low, swap space can be used as temporary storage for memory, which gets swapped in and out of swap storage as needed, thus effectively increasing the amount of memory a system can work with.
What the -m, -G, and -s flags do for the useradd command is -m creates the user's home directory if it does not exist, -G gives a list of groups which the user becomes a member of, and -s defines the path of the user's login shell.
