What do ipsilateral and contralateral mean? Ipsilateral means "same side". Contralateral means "opposite side". Ipsilateral is used when target vessel is accessible. Contralateral is used when it's harder to reach.
How is the Common Femoral Artery (CFA) used? Primary blood source for lower limbs. Common entry point for angioplasty (due to size). Provies accessibility, particularly useful for emergency situations. Common entry point for contrast dye injection. Size facilitates vascular health checks (eg pulse palpations). Indicator of blood pressure throughout cardiovascular system. Commonly needs arterial repair due to atherosclerosis|aneurysms. Used for training vascular techniques (due to size).
How is the Anterior Tibial Artery (ATA) used? Takes blood from calf to ankle. Used to assess circulation to feet and legs. Ensures circulation around the knee. Used for potentially less invasive endovascular operations.
How is the Superficial Femoral Artery (SFA) used? Primary conduit for thigh and leg perfusion. Ideal spot for treating PAD using PTA catheters. Common site for drug-eluting therapies. Same as CFA, but lower down the leg.
What is the primary function of arteries? Transport oxygenated blood to the body. Maintain high blood pressure to transport blood efficiently. Their flexibility facilitates blood pumping from the heart. Arterial functions warn of other bodily issues. Baroreceptors in arterial walls regulate blood pressure. Arterial blood flow is regulated by body temperature. Able to be used for drug delivery. Delivers oxygenated blood to every organ.
What major arteries should I know about? Aorta is largest and emerges from the heart. Carotid (2) supplies blood to brain on neck. Subclavian supply blood to arms  upper-chest. Femoral power the legs, used for pta operations. Pulmonary carry de-oxygenated blood from heart to lungs. Renal supplies blood to kidneys and filters waste. Celiac delivers blood to stomach, liver, and spleen. Popliteal is a knee artery vulnerable to injury.
What are the layers of an artery? Tunica intima is the innermost layer (inside artery). Tunica media is the middle layer (muscle fibers). Tunica externa is outermost layer (connective tissues).
What are the 8 most common arterial diseases? Athereosclerosis, fatty plaque buildup stopping blood flow. Coronary-artery-disease (CAD), athereosclerosis escalated to heavy heart failure. Carotid-artery-disease, carotid plaque buildup, often causes strokes. Peripheral-artery-disease (PAD), athereosclerosis in the legs, causes complications. Aneurysm, arterial hernias basically, can cause life-threatening bleeding. Stenosis, narrowing of arteries. Politeal-artery-entrapment, muscular compression of politeal artery. Abnormal growth in arterial walls, NOT from athereosclerosis.
