What is computer memory? any physical device capable of storing information temporarily or permanently, although memory in the context of systems admins often refers to volatile memory specifically, which is that storage which does not persist after a machine is powered off
What is the difference between memory and storage? memory is taken from storage and only used for immediate tasks and gets obliterated when the computer is powered off, while storage is used as a larger but harder-to-access way to hold information and persists when the computer is powered off
What is the difference between memory and storage? that memory is like your countertop when you're cooking a meal--all ingredients and dishes are pulled from somewhere else for immediate use in the kitchen, and are then used, cleaned up, and returned to their storage locations (fridge, pantry, cabinets, etc)
What is the difference between memory and storage? memory is like a trash can in my house that I have to take out, and storage is like the big trash outside; I would never go all the way out to the big trash every time I had to throw away a wrapper because that would take too long, and that's exactly why computers load all the things they frequently need into memory, to save massive amounts of time
What is main memory? a storage location that is directly accessible by the cpu; the most common forms of main memory are ram and rom
What is virtual memory? a way to access memory in a harder-to-access way as a fallback if the physical ram runs out of space; it behaves as if it were ram, but is actually a part of the computer's storage, and is therefore not as fast as actual physical ram
How does swap space work? sending programs that would cause memory overflow (aka, not enough ram can be allocated for the programs needs) to a location on disk that behaves like physical memory (we call this virtual memory, and the location on disk is called swap space)
What is hibernation? a power-saving mode which saves a computer's state from ram into swap space while the computer is *mostly* powered off (it's hibernating), and since this is done by dumping the entire contents of ram into swap space, AT LEAST as much swap space as ram is needed if you want to allow hibernation on your system
What is flash memory? non-volatile, solid-state, electrically erasable, and reprogrammable memory; a great storage option, used in usb drives (aka flash drives), ssd's, and memory cards
What is a memory leak? what happens when memory continuously gets allocated for something in a program, but then never gets properly freed up once that task is done, constantly consuming memory until memory is no longer available
What are the most memory-heavy operations a typical computer has to perform? running large applications (lots of memory is required to hold their data, textures, and operations in real-time), virtual machines (simulating entire systems, each of which requires their own chunks of memory, can eat a lot of memory), and multiple apps at once (basically for the 2 previous reasons combined)
What is the difference between volatile and non-volatile memory? that volatile memory loses its contents when the computer or hardware device loses power (like what people typically mean when they say memory), whereas non-volatile memory persists when the computer is powered off, thus volatile memory is what most people think of when they say memory or ram, and non-volatile memory is what people think of when they say storage, disk, or rom
What is clock speed? the number of cpu cycles per second (note that each cycle represents a single tick of the processor's clock, during which the cpu can fetch, decode and execute instructions)
What is latency? the amount of time it takes to do a certain operation
What makes ram fast or slow at a hardware level? higher clock speed (measured in hertz) and lower latency (measured in clock cycles); higher clock speed and lower latency tends to be the best general approach, but it needs to be balanced well, because a balanced middle ground is often required to keep the hardware inter-compatible
What would happen if there was no memory, and hard disk was used for everything on a computer? everything a computer did would be a lot slower--it'd be like having to go inside the fridge every time I wanted to take an ingredient out in the kitchen, and instead of leaving it out for me to use again, putting it back in the fridge, only for me to take it out several times; therefore, computers are much more efficient with memory
Is rom memory or storage? memory, it's just memory that can only be read from and not written to; note also that rom is NON-volatile
What different types of ram (if any) are important to know as a systems admin? ddr (double data rate) ram [twice as fast as older single data rate (sdr) ram, used for general-purpose computing], ecc (error-correcting code) ram [used for high-reliability systems, like servers and critical applications], sram (static) [much faster than dram and much more expensive, used for enterprise servers, data centers, and financial or scientific computing], and dram (dynamic) [cheaper and slower than sram, used for common computers]
What is a register? a small storage space for units of memory used to transfer data for immediate use by the cpu
What does post do in an operating system? (power-on self-test), is a set of diagnostics that a computer runs on itself to make sure that crucial hardware components are functioning properly before attempting to load the operating system; the hardware that a post checks for includes cpu, ram, i/o devices, the motherboard, and the bios (basically checks itself before it wrecks itself)
How does the computer decide which parts of the hard drive to load into ram? consulting the memory management unit (mmu), whose purpose is to keep track of which data is currently being used by applications and loads those into the hard drive for later use
What does it mean to purge data? permanently delete data from a system in an irreversible way
Why does a computer need so many memory systems? memory that can keep up with the processing speed of modern cpu's is really expensive, so a balance is made by having a small amount of expensive memory on modern computers (high-tier memory, such as level 1 cache), and balancing that out with cheaper memory (the cheapest of which is data storage); this makes the whole computer cheaper as a result
Why are there two levels of memory cache? that allows for a balance between speed and size, allowing for high performance at level 1 but higher space at level 2, while still being easily accessible by level 1
What are bus width and bus speed? the number of bits that can be sent to the cpu simultaneously (width) and the number of times a group of bits can be sent each second (speed)
What happens when a system has low ram? it becomes noticeably slower, especially when multi-tasking; programs will take longer to load, freezes may occur frequently, the chances of programs crashing is increased, and overall performance is sluggish and not user-friendly
What is the most common cause of a consistently slow computer? usually having too many programs running at once, which does overload the system's ram; this is interesting though, because I assumed low ram would be the most common cause, but now that I think about it, it's unlikely people would even buy a computer with ram so low it negatively affects performance from the outset, so it makes sense that the majority of lags are not caused by bad ram, but rather, caused by having so many processes running at once that the perfectly good ram gets overloaded
What is this computer's cpu's processing speed? 1.1 GHz
How much ram does this macbook have? 8 GB
What speed is my macbook's ram? 3.7 GHz (note that this isn't a 1:1 comparison with cpu processing speed because ram speed refers to the speed of transferring data, whereas cpu speed refers to clock cycles per second)
