The difference between memory and storage is that memory is like your countertop when you're cooking a meal--all ingredients and dishes are pulled from somewhere else for immediate use in the kitchen, and are then used, cleaned up, and returned to their storage locations (fridge, pantry, cabinets, etc).
Main memory is basically what we were referring to with the example of storage vs main memory--where main memory is the countertop where you put things temporarily to cook, and other types of memory like storage and cache memory are to keep things more permanently, whereas memory gets wiped clean every time the process using those tools completes.
Virtual memory is a way to access memory in a harder-to-access way as a fallback if the hard drive runs out of space.
Flash memory is faster than older forms of memory like floppy disks, but not as fast and more powerful and modern memory types like ram.
A memory leak is what happens when memory continuously gets allocated for something in a program, but then never gets properly freed up once that task is done, constantly consuming memory until memory is no longer available.
What are the most memory-heavy operations a typical computer has to perform? running large applications (lots of memory is required to hold their data, textures, and operations in real-time), virtual machines (simulating entire systems, each of which requires their own chunks of memory, can eat a lot of memory), and multiple apps at once (basically for the 2 previous reasons combined).
Computer memory is any physical device capable of storing information temporarily or permanently.
The difference between volatile and non-volatile memory is mthat volatile memory loses its contents when the computer or hardware device loses power (like what people typically mean when they say memory), whereas non-volatile memory persists when the computer is powered off, thus volatile memory is what most people think of when they say memory or ram, and non-volatile memory is what people think of when they say storage, disk, or rom.
What makes ram fast or slow at a hardware level is the clock speed (measured in hertz) and latency (measured in clock cycles); higher clock speed and lower latency tends to be the best general approach, but it needs to be balanced well, because a balanced middle ground is often required so that hardware remains compatible.
If there was no memory, and hard disk was used for everything on a computer, then everything a computer did would be a lot slower--it'd be like having to go inside the fridge every time I wanted to take an ingredient out in the kitchen, and instead of leaving it out for me to use again, putting it back in the fridge, only for me to take it out several times; therefore, computers are much more efficient with memory.
Rom is memory not storage, because storage refers to hard drives where data can be stored long-term, and evne though rom stores its data, it's used tas a more permanent cache rather than a hard storage device.
What different types of ram (if any) are important to know as a systems admin? ddr (double data rate) ram, ecc (error-correcting code) ram, sram (static) ram, dram (dynamic) ram, lpddr (low power ddr), and buffered or registered ram.
