What are balloon (PTA) catheters used for? Minimally-invasive surgical operations involving de-clogging cardiovascular blood vessels. Opening blood vessels by compressing plaque against walls. Temporarily blocking blood flow to directly administer drugs. Scaffolding vessels by facilitating stent placement inside them. Gently forced labor-induction via cervix (Foley balloon catheter). Stopping internal bleeding using REBOA. Draining urine from bladder, especially post-surgery. Anything requiring the dissolution of blood clots.
What other names/types of balloon catheters exist? Angioplasty catheter. Drug-coated balloon (DCB). Over the wire (OTW) balloon catheters. Rapid Exchange (RX) balloon catheters. Balloon occlusion catheter (temporary blood flow blocker). Foley catheter (anchors into bladder for urinary procedures). Balloon dilation catheter (widens narrow anatomic passages). PTA (Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasy) catheter.
What risks can come with angioplasty operations? Restenosis, aka, re-narrowing of artery over time. Blood clots can form due to stent placement. Blood-thinning medication reduces risk of blood clots. Plaque or clot complications may cause heart attacks. Tearing artery wall, which would require emergency surgery. May cause stroke if blood clot reaches brain. Occassional allergic reaction to contrast dye used. Contrast dye may affect kidney function.
What do the individual elements of PTA mean? Per = through; cutis = skin. Percutaneous = through skin. Percutaneous refers to procedures done by puncturing skin. Trans = across|through; lumen = light|opening|passageway. Transluminal = through or across lumen. Angio = vessel; plasty = molding|reshaping. Angioplasty = vessel remolding|reshaping. Percutaneous-transluminal-angioplasty = vessel remolding across lumen through skin.
What role does a guidewire play in angioplasty? Provides structural support for catheters and stents. Facilitates flexible, precise navigation within catheter. Guidewire is AKA wire introducer or access wire. Minimizes trauma and therefore increases safety. Some procedures are too complex without one (CTO's). Without guidewires, catheter navigation is virtually impossible. Facilitates lubrification in angioplasty operation via administered coatings. In summary, guidewires maximize precision, safety, and control.
What role does contrast dye play in angioplasty? Applies x-ray imaging (fluoroscopy) to view outside arteries. Confirms exact location of the narrowed artery. Directs guidewire and balloon catheter to target site. Monitors stent and balloon placement visually (in real-time). Checks the success of blood flow restoration post-inflation.
What role do stents play in angioplasty? Prevents arteries from collapsing, a common occurance post-dilation. Can be drug-eluted, which prevents tissue regrowth. Provides stabilizing control in challenging anatomy. Minimize dilation count which reduces procedure time. Minimize surgical risks by stopping arterial ruptures.
How do venous and arterial catheters differ? Venous inserted into veins; arterial inserted into arteries. Venous catheters are used more in chemotherapy administration. Arterial catheters are less comfortable than venous catheters. Artherial catheters require more precision to insert. Organ transplants tend to use venous catheters. IV administration is done through venous catheters [Intra-Venous]. Brain or heart surgery may use both types.
