What is a label in prometheus?
How do I add a label to prometheus?
How do I reload a prometheus instance's configuration without restarting the process?
What is systems monitoring?
What is a multi-dimensional data model?
What is distributed storage?
What is prometheus?
What is an endpoint?
What is a prometheus target?
What is instrumentation?
When should you use prometheus?
When should You should not use prometheus?
What does a prometheuss target do?
What does it mean to scrape data?
How do I download and run Prometheus locally?
How do I configure prometheus to scrape itself?
What is a query?
What is a rule (in prometheus)?
What is the node exporter in prometheus?
What is a target?
How do I configure Prometheus to monitor a target?
What is a canary instance?
What is Grafana?
Does Grafana have to be used with prometheus?
What is stored in metrics by prometheus?
What are metrics?
What are traces?
What does a push gateway do?
When should I use the pushgateway?
What does it mean to store metrics as time series data?
What is a pull model for time series collection?
What is an intermediary gateway?
What is a push gateway?
What is a time-series?
What does it mean to scrape time series data?
What is an instance in prometheus?
What is a job in prometheus?
What does it mean to add scraped data to a new time series?
What does it mean to compute something ad-hoc?
What is a query in prometheus?
How does prometheus make queries that aggregate thousands of time series more efficient?
What is a rule in prometheus?
What does SIGHUP stand for?
Why does SIGTERM shut down a prometheus instance more cleanly than SIGHUP?
What are the most notable features of PromQL?
What is the difference between an instant query and a range query in prometheus?
What types of queries are stored in the Table and Graph tabs in the prometheus ui?
What role does the HTTP API play in other programs fetching the result of a PromQL expression?
What are the four types that an expression or sub-expression can evaluate to?
Which of the four expression evaluation types is currently unused in prometheus?
Which data types are supported by range queries?
Which data type represents a set of time series containing a single sample for each time series, all sharing the same timestamp?
Which data type is a simple numeric floating point value?
What are vectors in promql?
What are scalars in promql?
What is a range vector data type?
What is an offset modifier in prometheus?
What is a selector in prometheus?
How is a string literal represented in prometheus?
What are the smallest and largest time units that can be used in prometheus?
When combining time units together on one line in prometheus, what order must be followed?
What is the difference between time series selectors and instant vector selectors?
What does the @ modifier do in promql?
How do I filter metric results in promql?
What label matches are available in promql (besides simple =)?
How would you match any existing job label in promql?
What does __name__ do in promql?
How do you select all values recorded less than 10 minutes ago in promql?
What are some useful things I can do in prometheus?
What is the lookback period in prometheus?
What does it mean for a time series to be marked as stale?
What is graph mode in prometheus?
What is an aggregation operator?
What is a feature flag in prometheus?
What is a bucket in prometheus?
What are the four metric types in prometheus?
What is a counter metric in prometheus?
What is a gauge metric in prometheus?
What is latency?
What is a summary metric in prometheus?
What is a histogram metric in prometheus?
What is the TSDB in prometheus?
What is the name of the function that returns an empty vector if the vector passed into it has any elements, and a 1-element vector with the value of 1 if the vector passed to it has no elements?
In what circumstance would you use +Inf (infinity) in prometheus?
What does the changes function do?
What does the clamp function do?
What does the rate function do in promql?
What are three examples of time calculation functions in prometheus?
What does the delta function do in prometheus?
What is the only metric type that the deriv function should be used on?
Which specific metric type in prometheus is experimental and may therefore be removed in future versions of prometheus?
What is a float sample in prometheus?
What would cause a naming collision in prometheus?
What does le mean in prometheus?
What does monotonic mean in the context of prometheus buckets?
What is the role of a smoothing factor in prometheus?
What is the syntax for inputting label matchers in promql?
What is a join query in prometheus?
What is the role of the __name__ label matcher in prometheus?
What does the i in irate stand for?
What function would you use to sort results in descending order?
What does the time function do?
How would I select all HTTP status codes except for ones that include 5xx?
What does it mean if an http request metric has a resolution of 1 minute?
