What is a fork in a system? a duplicated process
What is a slab in memory? a kernel object that allows memory blocks to be dynamically allocated from a designated memory region
What is a memory buffer? a temporary storage area in a computer's memory that holds data while it's being moved from one place to another
What is an interrupt per second? the number of times (per second) a computer's processor is interrupted by a hardware event, such as a keyboad press or timer signal
What is a context switch in a system? the process of storing the state of a process or thread so that it can be restored and resume execution at a later point, and then restoring a different, previously saved, state
What is a page (according to mac's vm_stat command)? a fixed size block of memory that is managed by the operating system's virtual memory system
What is a vm compressor? a memory management technique that utilizes data compression to reduce the size or number of paging requests to and from the auxiliary storage
What is auxiliary storage? secondary storage, not directly accessible by the cpu, which contains much much more storage than primary storage typically, because auxiliary storage can hold so much more
How would I get dynamic memory info every 2 seconds 3 times using vmstat? running: vmstat 2 3
How would I display the idle cpu usage every second 20 times while running other commands in between? running: echo cpu; vmstat 1 20 | sed '1d' | awk '{print $15}' &; commands_here; more_commands_here;
What do the headers in vmstat mean? the following--procs: r) number of processes waiting for cpu time, b) number of processes in an uninterruptible sleep state; memory: swpd) amount of virtual memory used, free) amount of idle memory, buff) amount of memory used as buffers (for block device I/O), cache) amount of memory useed as cache (to speed up file operations); swap: si) amount of memory swapped in from disk (bytes/second), so) amount of memory swapped out to disk; io: bi) blocks received from a block device (disk reads, in blocks per second), bo) blocks sent to a block device (disk writes); system: in) number of interrupts per second (including clock interrupts), cs) number of context switches per second; cpu: us) percentage of cpu time spent on user-level processes, sy) percentage of cpu time spent on system/kernel-level processes, id) percentage of cpu time spent idle, wa) percentage of cpu time spent waiting for i/o, st) percentage of cpu time stolen by a hypervisor for other virtual machines
