What does it mean to pull a docker image? download said image from a docker registry, which is some place where docker images are stored
What is a docker container? an encapsulated environment that can be perfectly replicated regardless of hardware or operating system
What is a PID namespace in docker? a way to provide separation of processes
Why might it be useful to load an environment variable from a file with docker run? you can create versatile and reusable configurations by being able to easily manipulate environment variables
Why does docker-run run a command in a new container as opposed to some other previously used or existing container? this makes them easier to create exact replicas of containers, without any external dependencies
Under what circumstances does docker-run need to pull an image? it does not exist locally, and DOES exist on some docker registry like docker hub
What does it mean to pull a docker image? download it to my local computer from some remote server (registry)
What is a docker container? an independent, easily reproducible environment, whose reproduction does not at all depend on the host computer
What does detached mode mean? when I run the docker run command that I can continue to use the command line while the docker run process runs my container
How do you connect a container to a user-defined bridge network? using docker network create my-bridge-network
What is a bridge network in docker? a way to isolate networks from each other by giving them their own name, and only connecting certain intentional containers to said bridge networks
What happens when you connect a container to a user-defined bridge network? you gain control over a network which can be used for certain deliberate containers, giving the user security and power
What is a cidfile in docker run? a flag that tells docker to write the newly created container's id to a specified file
What is a PID namespace in docker? an encapsulation of certain process id visibilities, constrained to each namespace, all of which are visible to the host system, and each of which is only visible to the container running said processes
What is a namespace? an area in which variable names (and in the latter case, process ids) are able to be seen
What is a namespace? synonymous to a scope
What is a PID namespace in docker? a namespace represented by a "process id" (PID)
What does it mean to expose a port in docker? let an external client connect to something inside of a docker container by connecting port 90 externally to por 80 internally, for example
Is it true that a docker container does not depend on hardware or operating system, not even Linux? containers share the host's operating system, and do not require an os at the application level, but they do require it from the host
How do I load an environment variable from a file with docker run? using the following command = docker run -e ENV_VAR='override_val'
What is an environment variable in docker run? a var set to configure runtime behavior of the container
Is it true that a namespace synonymous to a scope? yes, a namespace is similar to a scope in docker, it just specifically applies to something like PID, network, mount, etc.
Is it true that a docker container does not depend on hardware or operating system, not even Linux? no, docker containers DO depend upon Linux
Is it true that a namespace is synonymous to a scope? yes, in the context of docker a namespace is similar to a scope, but namespaces are more docker-specific, whereas scope is a very generic term
What does docker run -t flag do? allocates a pseudo-tty (teletypewriter) to the container, which connects my terminal to the i/o streams of the container, allowing me to interact anormally with containers that expect a terminal environment
