What does it mean to pull a docker image? download said image from a docker registry, which is some place where docker images are stored
What is a docker container? an encapsulated environment that can be perfectly replicated regardless of hardware or operating system
What is a PID namespace in docker? a way to provide separation of processes
Why might it be useful to load an environment variable from a file with docker run? you can create versatile and reusable configurations by being able to easily manipulate environment variables
Why does docker-run run a command in a new container as opposed to some other previously used or existing container? the whole point of docker run and containers is to create a new container, and the fact that this is very easy thanks to docker images
Why does docker-run run a command in a new container as opposed to some other previously used or existing container? this makes them easier to create exact replicas of containers, without any external dependencies
Under what circumstances does docker-run need to pull an image? it does not exist locally, and DOES exist on some docker registry like docker hub
What does it mean to pull a docker image? download it to my local computer from some remote server (registry)
What is a docker container? an independent, easily reproducible environment, whose reproduction does not at all depend on the host computer
What does detached mode mean? when I run the docker run command that I can continue to use the command line while the docker run process runs my container
How do you connect a container to a user-defined bridge network? using docker network create my-bridge-network
What is a bridge network in docker? a way to isolate networks from each other by giving them their own name, and only connecting certain intentional containers to said bridge networks
What happens when you connect a container to a user-defined bridge network? you gain control over a network which can be used for certain deliberate containers, giving the user security and power
What is a cidfile in docker run? a flag that tells docker to write the newly created container's id to a specified file
What is a PID namespace in docker? an encapsulation of certain process id visibilities, constrained to each namespace, all of which are visible to the host system, and each of which is only visible to the container running said processes
What is a namespace? an area in which variable names (and in the latter case, process ids) are able to be seen
What is a namespace? synonymous with a scope
